# 0301 - fs

### fs (File System)?

**File I/O is provided by simple wrappers around standard POSIX functions**

- To use the fs module you have to require it with `require('fs')`. 
- All the methods have **asynchronous** and **synchronous** forms.

Example:
```js
  const fs = require('fs')

  // -------------------------------
  //      Async api
  // -------------------------------
  
  // Delete the file
  fs.unlink('/tmp/file', (err) => {
    console.log( err? err : 'file successfully deleted');
  });

  // -------------------------------
  //    Sync api
  // -------------------------------
  try {
    fs.unlinkSync('/tmp/file')
  } catch (err) {
    console.log(err)
  }
```

### Main `fs` Methods

Method                 | Description
-----------------------|-----------
**fs.access**          | Tests a user's permissions for the file or directory specified by path. The mode argument is an optional integer that specifies the accessibility checks to be performed. Check File Access Constants for possible values of mode. It is possible to create a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of two or more values (e.g. `fs.constants.W_OK &#x7c; fs.constants.R_OK`).<br/><br/>The final argument, callback, is a callback function that is invoked with a possible error argument. If any of the accessibility checks fail, the error argument will be an Error object. The following examples check if package.json exists, and if it is readable or writable.
**fs.readFile**        | Asynchronously reads the entire contents of a file.
**fs.readFileSync**    | Synchronously `fs.readFile` <br/> If the encoding option is specified then this function returns a string. Otherwise it returns a buffer.
**fs.writeFile**       | Asynchronously writes data to a file, replacing the file if it already exists. data can be a string or a buffer.
**fs.writeFileSync**   | Synchronously writes data to a file
**fs.unlink**          | Asynchronously removes a file or symbolic link. No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion callback.
**fs.readFilesync**    | Synchronously unlink





[Previous Chapter](/Chapters/02-NodeFundamentals) | [Previous page](/Chapters/02-NodeFundamentals/0206-Streams.md) | [Next Page](/Chapters/03-CoreModules/0302-readline.md) | 

&copy; 2018 CodeWizardAcademy, Inc.

